.TH LFIRSTTIME 8 "2014-10-11" "Lunar Linux" "Lunar Linux for the first time"
.SH NAME
lfirsttime \- What to do after a successful installation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
This manual page has been written in order to ease the life of the
system administrator after the installation part of
.B Lunar Linux.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Lunar Linux
is a source based distribution which means that every module installed
is compiled from source.
.B Lunar Linux
is also a rolling release distribution so there is no need to
reinstall when a new ISO is released, simply keep your packages up to
date.
.LP
These are the suggested tasks you should accomplish after the first
boot of a newly installed Lunar box.
.LP
All of the lunar related commands mentioned below either feature a
whole manpage or at least a very useful helpscreen. If you need
immediate assistance regarding any of those commands, issue:
.LP
.B man 'command' 
or 
.B 'command' \-\-help
.LP
at your console.
.LP
.B Please remember that the Lunar Install/Rescue ISO is not a full featured system.
.LP 
A list of things to do:
.TP 
\fBNetwork settings\fP
This step is crucial to your future success with 
.B Lunar Linux.
If you haven't configured your network yet try it with 
.B lnet.
.TP 
.B Check your network settings
Once you have configured your network, try to ping something on Internet.
.IP
Example: \fBping ping.sunet.se\fP
.IP
If it doesn't work you may be having a name resolution problem, try
pinging to the IP address instead of the name.
.IP
Example: \fBping 192.36.125.18\fP
.IP
If pinging to IP is working but pinging to name fails, check the
\fI/etc/resolv.conf\fP file and see if the nameserver entries are
there. You may also want to check the man page, \fBman resolv.conf\fR,
if you are not familiar with the content of this file.
.TP
.B Check the network device
If pinging the IP address fails, check if your network interface is up
and running. You may use the command \fBip\fP to view the interface's
status.
.IP
If you cannot, then check if your \fBNIC (network interface card)\fP
module is loaded (assuming you are using a modular kernel); use the
command \fBlsmod\fR to get a list of currently loaded modules.
.IP
If you do not know for sure what type of network card you have try
executing the command: \fBcat\fP \fI/proc/pci\fP \fB| grep Ethernet\fP
or \fBlspci\fP.  This should give the manufacturer and model name of
your ethernet card.
.TP
.B lnet or manual configuration
Your network setting can be configured completely using \fBlnet\fP;
just make sure you set up your interface correctly as needed. If you
encounter problems after having configured your network with
\fBlnet\fP you probably want to adjust the configuration manually.
.IP
The network configuration file for your Lunar installation may be
found in \fI/etc/config.d/network/'interface'\fP (i.e. 'eth0' \->
\fI/etc/config.d/network/eth0\fP). If you adjust your interface's
configuration manually it is required to restart the interface using
\fBsystemctl\fP.
.IP
Example eth0 using DHCP: \fBsystemcl restart lnet-dhpcd@eth0\fP
.IP
Example eth0 using static ip: \fBsystemctl restart lnet-static@eth0\fP
.TP
.B Update your modules repository
The modules repository from where the coretools gather their
\fBpackage information\fP is called \fBmoonbase\fP. Also, packages are
usually referred to as \fBmodules\fP. Since the moonbase on your
installation is probably outdated it's strongly recommended to update
your moonbase as the first thing you do.
.IP
To update your moonbase run: \fBlin moonbase\fP
.TP 
.B Update your coretools
The \fBcoretools\fP are the heart of every \fBLunar Linux\fP
system. They provide you with all the necessary commands to maintain a
working installation thus it's always recommended to have the latest
version installed. Our \fBcoretools\fP module is called \fBlunar\fP.
.IP
To update \fBlunar coretools\fP run: \fBlin lunar\fP
.IP
A very brief explanation of the most important coretool
components. For further information regarding the referenced parts
please refer to their manpages (i.e. man <part>):
.RS
.IP 
\fBlin <module>\fP            Install a package/module
.IP
\fBlvu <option> <module>\fP   View information about a package/module
.IP
\fBlrm <moduule>\fP           Uninstall a package/module
.IP
\fBlunar <option>\fP          Lunar configuration utility
.RE
.TP
\fBSet your preferences\fP
\fBLunar Linux\fP can easily be customized and is highly
configurable. For changing the options that affect your system you may
use the menu driven \fBlunar\fR configuration utility. It's based on
ncurses which means you can even run it in the console of your
choice. You need to become root to use it.
.RS
.TP 
.B Optimizations
Set the optimizations for your computer. Be aware that changing your
optimizations to the wrong values might actually break your whole
installation so be really careful about what you're choosing. The
ISO has been built with a minimum of available optimizations to
ensure the highest amount of flexibility. To see whether or not your
processor supports a certain feature try a \fBcat /proc/cpu\fP. It
usually shows the available settings that suit your machine.
.TP 
.B Integrity checking
Lunar is performing a range of security checks on tarballs and
installed packages to prevent faulty tarballs and possible intruders
from taking over your system. It also ensures that none of your
currently installed packages is broken. You may select the amount of
checks from the \fBIntegrity checking\fP submenu at the \fBOptions\fP
menu. It's generally recommended to at least choose
\fBFIND_CHECK\fP and \fBLDD_CHECK\fP.
.TP 
.B Feature menu
As mentioned before, \fBLunar\fP is highly configurable. Thus you have
a whole menu to select its features from. It's strongly advised to at
least take a look at it and get used to them. Explanations are usually
displayed as soon as you select an item. It can be a \fBpowerful
companion\fR while achieving the goal of setting up your system.
.RE
.TP
.B General updates
Right now you're set to update your whole system. Before you do that
make sure you have the most recent \fBmoonbase\fR and \fBcoretools\fR
installed.
.IP
To update your whole system run: \fBlunar update\fP
.IP
\fBlunar update\fP actually implicitly update \fBmoonbase\fP and
\fBcoretools\fP for you. If you don't want it to do that you can use
\fBlunar renew\fP that only updates the out of date modules.
.IP
It's going to compare your system's installed modules against the
moonbase's definitions and update the installed modules
accordingly. It's going to give you a list of modules that are going
to be updated. If you're not sure wether you want a certain module to
be updated remove it from the list. Once you're done the coretools are
going to start the update which usually is going to take a while
depending on how long ago the last update was done. So grab a coffee
and/or a book and wait for it to finish ;\-)
.IP
Once it is done it is going to present you with a summary about how
many module where successfully updated and which of them
failed. \fBlvu\fP ('lvu activity') is going to show you which of them
failed and usually why. \fBlvu\fP ('lvu compile <module>') is also
going to show you the compilation's logfile which should clearly point
you to the error that led to the failure of the module's compilation.
.IP
The first thing to do would be to 're'lin' (i.e. execute \fBlin
\-cr\fP once more. It is always advised to use the \-c (compile) and
the \-r (reconfigure) switch in case a module fails to compile. If you
think you will not be able to resolve the matter on your own you can
still file a bugreport at https://github.com/lunar-linux/lunar/issues
or report the error to the \fBLunar Linux mailinglist\fR. You will
have to subscribe to the list at
http://lists.lunar\-linux.org/mailman/listinfo/lunar before being able
to post any e-mail to it.
.IP
Once the update has been completed successfully you may go ahead and
customize your installation to suit your own needs. Well done!
.SH HINTS
.TP 
.B TAB-completion
All of the coretools are able to do tab\-completion. Say, you want to
install the module 'xfce4\-panel' just go ahead and type 'lin
xfce4\-p<TAB>' and lin is going to append the rest of the
module's name to the command. Once there are too few characters to
resolve the name into one single module you just need to hit
TAB twice to get a list of all the modules starting with the
characters you just typed i.e. 'lin xfce<TAB><TAB>' is going to give
you a list of all modules starting with 'xfce'.
.TP 
.B Leftovers
In case of a compilation failure the sources of the failed module are
left in \fB$BUILD_DIRECTORY\fP (usually /usr/src/). Moreover, a few
tracking files lunar creates to monitor the running installation
process might be left in /tmp. Make sure you tidy up these two
locations from time to time.
.IP
\fBCAUTION:\fP Directories like 'linux\-x.x' are kernel source
directories and _must_ be left intact. Otherwise your system is going
to break! Only delete them if you're absolutely sure that they don't
belong to your currently running kernel.
.TP 
.B IRC channel
The fastest help you get is by chatting with the developers
directly. Join the \fBLunar Linux IRC channel\fP at freenode
irc://irc.freenode.net/#lunar
.SH NOTES
This is merely an introduction to what should be done to get a
ready-to-go Lunar system. Please consult the documentation at the
Lunar website for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
Documentation at the Lunar Linux website at http://lunar\-linux.org
.PP
\fIlunar\fR\|(8), \fImoonbase\fR\|(1), \fIlin\fR\|(8), \fIlvu\fR\|(1), \fIlget\fR\|(8), \fIlrm\fR\|(8), \fIlnet\fR\|(8)
.SH DISCLAIMER
The information and examples given here are for illustrative purposes. If you encounter any inaccuracies please send an email to the authors.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This document is originally Copyrighted Kagan Kongar 2002.
.PP
Portions of this document Copyrighted (C) 2003\-2004 Terry Chan
.PP
It has been almost completely rewritten by Moritz Heiber for the Lunar
Linux development team under the Creative Commons License, (C) 2005
.PP
Updated by Stefan Wold for the Lunar Linux team under the Creative
Commons License, (C) 2014
.SH AUTHORS
Kagan Kongar  <kongar@tsrsb.org.tr>
.PP
Terry Chan    <tchan@lunar\-linux.org>
.PP
Moritz Heiber <moe@lunar\-linux.org>
.PP
Stefan Wold   <ratler@lunar\-linux.org>
