.TH LGET 8 "October 2014" "Lunar Linux" LUNAR
.SH NAME
lget \- downloads module source files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lget
module_1 module_2 module_3
.PP
.B lget -h|--help
.PP
.B lget -a|--all
.PP
.B lget -d|--debug|-f|--from|-u|--url|-v|--verbose|-w|--want
module_1 module_2
.SH COPYRIGHT
.if n lget(8) is Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Terry Chan with portions copyrighted by previous authors 2001-2002
.if t lget(8) is Copyright \(co 2002-2003 Terry Chan with portions copyrighted by previous authors 2001-2002
.SH "EXAMPLE"
To download emacs type:
.IP
.B lget
emacs
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.I lget
is part of the
.SM Lunar
source-code package management suite. It is a command-line tool
for automatically downloading a modules associated source files. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B lget
module_1 <module_2> <module_3>
.PP
This automatically downloads the specified module sources.
.TP
.B lget -a|--all
.PP
Download the source code for every single module in moonbase (about 2.5G as of 08/08/2003).
This is useful if you have a fast link or want to start your own Lunar source code mirror.
.TP
.B lget -d|--debug
.PP
Enables debug messages, very useful when emailing a bug report.
.TP
.B lget -f|--from path/dir
.PP
This specifies a different
.I /var/spool/lunar
directory. This is the default location for downloaded sources.
.TP
.B lget -h|--help
.PP
Outputs short help.
.TP
.B lget -u|--url URL module_1
.PP
This tries to download the specified module from a different location. This is
useful if the original link is down.
.TP
.B lget -w|--want version
.PP
Attempt to download version version of the module by substituting the current
version of the module with the wanted version. May fail if the package requires
more than one file download, or other reasons.
.TP
.B lget -4|--ipv4
.PP
Download sources using ipv4.
.TP
.B lget -6|--ipv6
.PP
Download sources using ipv6.
.TP
.B lget -v|--verbose
.PP
Increases the level of message output
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /etc/lunar/config & /etc/lunar/local/config
.IP
These files store the settings for default locations. Its best to leave
these alone as they are in quite good places by default. See lin(8) for more
details about these files.
.IP
.TP
.I /var/lib/lunar/functions/*.lunar
.IP
Contains functions used by 
.B lget
.SH ADVANCED USAGE
Specifing a different download location for linux
.IP
lget
.B --url http://ftp.mirror.ac.uk/sites/ftp.kernel.org/linux/kernel/2.4/linux-2.4.20.tar.bz2 linux
.SH "NOTES"
Do not include 
.SM version
or
.SM section
when specifying a package. To get complete listing of installed software
packages and versions type
.B lvu installed
.SH "AUTHOR"
Thomas Stewart
.PP
Converted to Lunar by Terry Chan 03/23/2002
.PP
Updated by Terry Chan 08/08/2003
.PP
Updated by Stefan Wold <ratler@lunar-linux.org> 10/11/2014
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <maintainer@lunar-linux.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lunar(8), lin(8), lvu(1), lrm(8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
