.TH LRM 8 "August 2003" "Lunar\-Linux" LUNAR
.SH NAME
lrm \- removes Lunar software modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lrm
[options] [module1] ... [module2] ...
.PP
.B lrm
-h|--help
.PP
.B lrm
-d|--debug|-k|--keepconfig|-n|--nosustain|-p|--purge|-u|--upgrade|
-v|--verbose <module(s)>
.PP
.B lrm
-D|--downgrade <module> <version>
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
.if n lrm(8) is Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Terry Chan with portions copyrighted by previous authors 2001-2002
.if t lrm(8) is Copyright \(co 2002-2003 Terry Chan with portions copyrighted by previous authors 2001-2002
.SH "EXAMPLE"
To uninstall emacs type:
.IP
.B lrm
emacs
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.I lrm
is part of the
.SM Lunar\-Linux
source-code package management suite. It is a command-line tool
for automatically uninstalling a module and its associated
files. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "-d, --debug"
enables debug messages, very useful when emailing a bug report
.TP
.B "-D, --downgrade"
downgrade is an option for removing the selected module and restoring
a previously installed version
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
outputs short help
.TP
.B "-k, --keepconfig"
remove module(s) but keep dependencies and config info
.TP
.B "-n, --nosustain"
emoves module(s) even if they are sustained
.TP
.B "-u, --upgrade"
perform an upgrade-removal. This skips running of pre/post-removal scripts
and implies -n and -k
.TP
.B "-v, --verbose"
increases the level of message output
.TP
.B "-p, --purge"
remove all modules that require "module" through dependencies
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /var/lib/lunar/excluded
.IP
List of files that are excluded during a lin or lrm.
.TP
.I /var/lib/lunar/protected
.IP
Contains a list of files that will not be removed.
.TP
.I /var/lib/lunar/solo
.IP
List of solo modules.
.TP
.I /var/lib/lunar/sustained
.IP
List of modules that are essential to system, and lrm of these modules is not permitted.
Installing and upgrading is fine.
.TP
.I /var/lib/lunar/functions/*.lunar
.IP
Contains functions used by 
.B lrm
.SH ADVANCED USAGE
Rolling back to a previous version of a package 
.IP
lrm
.B --downgrade 
glibc 2.2.3 
.SH "CATALYST TRIGGERS"
When a module is removed,
.B lrm
fires any CATALYST triggers registered for the
.B on_pre_remove
event (before removal) and the
.B on_remove
event (after removal). Triggers from all removed modules are collected and
fired in batch after the removal loop completes, with the exception of
pre\-remove triggers and rules marked
.B immediate
which fire right away. See
.BR moonbase (5)
for details on the CATALYST file format.
.PP
CATALYST triggers are skipped during upgrade removals
.RB ( lrm\~\-u ).
.SH "NOTES"
Do not include 
.SM version
or
.SM section
when specifying a package. To get complete listing of installed software
packages and versions type
.B lvu installed
.SH "NOTES"
Downgrade will only rollback to versions that were previously installed.
It will not download older versions from the Internet.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Kyle Sallee
.PP
Updated Thomas Stewart 01/15/2002
.PP
Converted to Lunar by Terry Chan 03/23/2002
.PP
Updated by Auke Kok 09/21/2004
.PP
Updated by Stefan Wold <ratler@lunar-linux.org> 02/19/2026
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <maintainer@lunar-linux.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lunar(8), lin(8), lvu(1), lget(8), moonbase(5)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
