.TH "LVU" "1" "October 2014" "Lunar Linux" "LUNAR"
.SH "NAME"
lvu \- query/view lunar package management information
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B lvu
alien|leafs|orphans|conflicts|moonalyze|pam
.PP 
.B lvu
cd|what|where|website|sources|urls|maintainer|version <module>
.PP 
.B lvu
compile|compiler|links|install|sum|md5sum <module>
.PP 
.B lvu
export|import [snapshot]
.PP 
.B lvu
moonbase|html|updatelog|activity
.PP 
.B lvu
search "phrase"
.PP 
.B lvu
service port|acronym
.PP
.B lvu
newer|older <yyyymmdd>
.PP 
.B lvu
from <path/file>
.PP 
.B lvu
installed [module]
.PP
.B lvu
conflicts
.PP
.B lvu
held|exiled|expired
.PP
.B lvu
section [section]
.PP 
.B lvu
voyeur [delay or module]
.PP 
.B lvu
depends <module>
.PP 
.B lvu
tree <module>
.PP 
.B lvu
eert <module>
.PP 
.B lvu
size [module]
.PP
.B lvu
new|submit|edit|unedit [module]
.PP
.B lvu
$MODULE_SCRIPT <module>
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.if n lvu(1) is Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Terry Chan with portions copyrighted by previous authors 2001\-2002
.if n lvu(1) also contains material which is Copyright (C) Lunar\-Linux team.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I lvu
is part of the lunar source\-based package management suite. It is a general purpose command\-line tool for displaying package logs, version information, checking for installed packages, checksums, message digests, maintainer information, package URL information, displaying new packages, untracked files, sections, searching for files that are installed, finding when modules were created and packages in the software catalogue. It can even take and retrieve snapshots of currently installed packages for easy duplication.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.B alien
.IP 
find and display all files which are not currently tracked by the lunar package management system
.PP 
.B leafs
.IP 
displays installed modules that have no explicit dependencies on them
.PP 
.B orphans
.IP 
displays installed modules that are missing required dependencies
.PP
.B conflicts
.IP
display conflicting files
.PP
.B moonalyze
.IP
analyze the current moonbase for common issues
.PP 
.B pam
.IP 
display modules installed that are pam aware
.PP 
.B cd
<module>
.IP 
changes current directory to the given module and execs a new shell
.PP 
.B what
<module>
.IP 
view the long package description
.PP 
.B where
<module>
.IP 
display the section a module belongs to
.PP 
.B website
<module>
.IP 
display the URL for the specified module
.PP 
.B sources
<module>
.IP 
list all source files contained in a module
.PP 
.B urls
<module>
.IP 
list all URLs for a module
.PP 
.B maintainer
<module>
.IP 
display the email address of the person currently responsible for maintaining a specified module
.PP 
.B version
<module>
.IP 
display version of module in moonbase
.PP 
.B compile
<module>
.IP 
show the compiler output generated when the module was built
.PP 
.B compiler
<module>
.IP 
display the version of compiler used for creating the ELF files in modules
.PP
.B links
<module>
.IP
display the modules that this module's ELF binary files actually links to
.PP
.B install
<module>
.IP 
used to determine what files were installed by a module and where those files are located
.PP
.B conflicts
.IP
display modules with conflicting files
.PP
.B held
.IP
display held modules
.PP
.B exiled
.IP
display exiled modules
.PP
.B expired
.IP
display a list of modules which will be updated by a `lunar renew`
.PP
.B sum
<module>
.IP 
print CRC checksums for modules(s). If no module is given it defaults to all.
.PP 
.B md5sum
<module>
.IP 
print module MD5 message digests (fingerprints). If no module is given it default to all
.PP 
.B export
.IP 
take a snapshot of all modules and configuration currently installed
.PP 
.B import
snapshot 
.IP 
restore the snapshot from a previous
.I lvu export command (see the export option)
.PP 
.B moonbase
.IP 
prints the entire moonbase
.PP 
.B html
.IP 
prints the entire moonbase in a nice html format
.PP 
.B updatelog
.IP 
view summary log of previous lunar update
.PP
.B activity
.IP
view the main lunar activity log
.PP
.B search
"phrase"
.IP 
Searches modules long descriptions for
.I phrase
.PP 
.B service
port|acronym
.IP 
displays modules that provide the given service
.I port|acronym
.PP 
.B newer
date
.IP 
print packages that are newer than a specified date. the date must be specified in the 'yyyymmdd' format, where y=year, m=month, and d=day
.PP 
.B older
date
.IP 
print packages that are older than a specified date. the date must be specified in the 'yyyymmdd' format, where y=year, m=month, and d=day
.PP 
.B from
<path/><file>
.IP 
find out what module has
.I <path>/file
installed
.PP 
.B installed
<module>
.IP 
view all installed packages and corresponding version numbers or check
to see whether a particular package is installed and if it is
installed display its version number
.PP 
.B section
<module>
.IP 
view a list of all sections in the software catalogue or display a list of packages from a specific section
.PP 
.B size
<module>
.IP 
display the size of a given module or all your installed modules in KB
.PP 
.B voyeur
<module>
.IP 
start looking at what lin is compiling at the moment and outputs it. A module can be optionally specified.
.PP 
.B depends
<module>
.IP 
displays the modules that explicitly or recursively depend on this module.
.PP 
.B tree
<module>
.IP 
displays a tree of the module's dependencies.
.PP 
.B eert
<module>
.IP 
displays a tree of the module's reverse dependencies.
.PP 
.B new
<module>
.IP
Attempt to create a module DETAILS file from scratch using cut-n-paste data from the user. Very dirty method to get a module started by just having 4 pieces of information handy: download url, descriptions and name
.PP
.B edit
<module>
.IP
Copy an existing module to zlocal so it can be edited. Turn on ZLOCAL_OVERRIDES to make sure your edited module gets used instead of the default module.
.PP
.B unedit
<module>
.IP
Discards your 'edit'ed zlocal module. Works the same as removing it.
.PP
.B submit
<module>
.IP
Submit a module to the lunar module submission list/mail alias. Please only submit tested changes.
.PP
.B $MODULE_SCRIPT
<module>
.IP 
replace $MODULE_SCRIPT with any of the following DETAILS | CONFIGURE | CONFLICTS | PRE_BUILD | BUILD | POST_BUILD | POST_INSTALL | POST_REMOVE to show module scripts for the
.I module
.SH "AUTHOR"
Original version written by Brian Peterson
.PP 
Modified by Kyle Sallee
.PP 
Updated Thomas Stewart 01/15/2002
.PP 
Converted to Lunar by Terry Chan 03/23/2002
.PP 
Edited and new functions added by Chuck Mead 05/21/2002
.PP
Updated again by Terry Chan 08/08/2003
.PP
Updated by Stefan Wold 06/07/2009
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <maintainer@lunar\-linux.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lunar(8), lin(8), lrm(8), lget(8), moonbase(5)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY


