.TH "lfirsttime" "8" "Release $Revision$" "Kagan Kongar" "Lunar firsttime"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
\fBlfirsttime\fR \- Lunar after\-boot manual
.SH "OVERVIEW"
.LP 
This manual page is written to ease the life of the System Administrators after the installation part of \fBLunar Linux\fR is finished.
.SH "DO NOT PANIC"
.LP 
These are the suggested tasks you should accomplish immediately after the first boot of a newly installed Lunar box.  The operations described below follow some logic and they should be executed in sequence ie; from beginning to end :=) Please remember that the Lunar Install/Rescue ISO is not a full featured system.  You must install more software via the "lin" mechanism to get a fully functioning server and/or workstation.  See the moonbase/profiles section for some handy collections of Lunar Modules.  It should also be noted that you MUST "lin xfree86", BEFORE you try to "lin" any other module that requires X\-Windows.  For some reason this is not obvious to quite a few Lunar users.

\fB1. Check Networking: \fRBetter check networking first, try pinging out.
.IP 
Example : ping www.google.com
.BR 

The above may or may not work. If it's not working you may be having a name resolution problem, try pinging to the IP address instead of the name,
.BR 

Example: ping 24.172.57.4 (lunar-linux.org)
.BR 

If pinging to IP is working but pinging to name fails, check the \fB/etc/resolv.conf\fR file and see if the nameserver entries are there. You may also want to check the man page, \fBman resolv.conf\fR if you are not familiar with the entries which should be in that file.
.BR 

If pinging the IP address fails, check to see if your network interface is up and running. You may use the command \fBifconfig\fR to see the interface status. You must be able to see the details of your network interface in the output of ifconfig. If you cannot, then check if your NIC (network interface card) module is loaded (assuming you are using a modular kernel); use the command \fBlsmod\fR to see the loaded modules. If you do not know for sure what type of network card you have try executing the command: \fBcat /proc/pci|grep Ethernet\fR.  This should output the manufacturer and model of your ethernet card.  If your NIC module is there but your interface is not up, reconfigure the interface with the command \fBlnet\fR and test again.  If your NIC module is still not listed in the output of lsmod, the chances are you have misconfigured the kernel or misconfigured networking.  To check the kernel modules, try \fBls \-l /lib/modules/`uname \-r`/kernel/drivers/net\fR to see the network modules available in the kernel.  If you are unable to see your NIC module, recompile and reinstall your kernel with the command \fBlin \-c linux\fR and try again after reboot.
.BR 
The network can completely be configured using \fBlnet\fR, make sure you set up your interface correctly as needed. If needed follow the next steps to manually adjust the configuration.

.BR
The network configuration file for your Lunar installation may be found in \fB/etc/config.d/network/<interface>\fR, ie; the configuration of your eth0 is written under \fB/etc/config.d/network/eth0\fR The configuration script you may use to configure your interfaces is called \fBlnet\fR. Any time you adjust the configuration of your networking interface you must restart networking to implement any changes you have made. The init script used to start/stop/restart network is \fB/etc/init.d/network\fR.
.BR 

Good luck and please remember that you must be able to ping dbguin.lunar\-linux.org in order to update your system.
.LP 

\fB2. Update the Moonbase: \fRSince Lunar Linux is a source based distribution, some of the binaries and/or modules on the CD may have been upgraded to newer versions already. 
.IP 
Do a \fBlin moonbase; lin lunar\fR. These commands will update the package collection (Moonbase) and the core package management tools.
.LP


\fB3. Set Your Preferences: \fRThere are a number of options which you may set or reset. For optimum performance, you must visit those.
.IP 
Type \fBlunar\fR and press enter as root. See \fBoption\fR menu. Please visit \fBOptimize Architecture\fR item first. Select your CPU and compile options there (my own preferences are \fBi686 pipe faster strip\fR and the ISO is prepared with \fBi386 pipe small strip\fR).
.BR 

Also, check \fBOption \-> Integrity Checking\fR and be sure that at least \fBFIND_CHECK\fR and \fBLDD_CHECK\fR are enabled.
.BR 

Do not forget to have a look at \fBOption \-> Feature Menu\fR
.BR 

Beyond the mentioned tasks you should take the time to have a general look at the options available and get acquainted with them. :=)
.LP 
\fB
4. Rebuild: \fRIn order to 1) be able to rollback your installations, you need a cache for the installed packages. 2) have the fastest Linux distro available.  \fBNOTE:\fR This step is only recommended now for users that must have their entire Lunar box highly optimized.  Regular Lunar users will only need a \fBlunar renew\fR (much quicker to complete than a rebuild) at this point and then continue on with step 5.
.BR 

Just type \fBlunar rebuild\fR and go out for lunch. The rebuild process may take some time depending on the CPU power and available RAM on your machine.
.BR 

This process should complete flawlessly. However, check the \fB/usr/src\fR directory for the remains of unsuccessful installations. If a module is installed successfully, nothing is left behind in /usr/src/<module_name>.  If an installation failed you will find a source directory for that module left behind in \fB/usr/src\fR.
.BR 

If there are any directories except the kernel, re\-lin those modules (lin \-c <module_name) and watch carefully to see what is happening during the build. Report bugs at: http://bugs.lunar\-linux.org/ and you should also subscribe to the lunar mailing list which you may do at: http://lunar\-linux.org/mailman/listinfo/lunar.
.LP 

\fB5. Customize Your Box: \fRIMO no need to describe that step further.

.SH "LIFESAVERS"
.LP 
Below are some useful addresses
.BR 

\fBWebsite: \fRhttp://www.lunar\-linux.org/
.BR 

\fBMaillist: \fRhttp://lunar\-linux.org/mailman/listinfo/lunar
.BR 

\fBIRC: \fRirc.freenode.net #lunar

.SH "NOTES"
.LP 
This is a work in progress. Expect frequent updates.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
lunar(8), moonbase(1), lin(8), lvu(1), lget(8), lrm(8), lnet(8)
.SH "DISCLAIMER"
.LP 
The information and examples given here are for illustrative purposes. Use at
your own risk. Every attempt has been made to insure that the content of this
document was accurate when written. If you find inaccuracies, please send me
clarifications.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.LP 
This document is Copyrighted Kagan Kongar 2002. It may be reproduced and distributed in whole or in part, in any medium physical or electronic, as long as this copyright notice is retained on all copies.
.LP 
Portions of this document Copyrighted (C) 2003-2004 Terry Chan
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Kagan Kongar <kongar@tsrsb.org.tr>
.PP 
Terry Chan   <tchan@lunar\-linux.org>
