.TH LGET 8 "March 2002" "Lunar Linux" LUNAR
.SH NAME
lget \- downloads module source files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lget
.PP
.B lget
module_1 module_2 module_2
.PP
.B lget
(--from|--url) module_1 module_2 module_2
.SH COPYRIGHT
.if n lget(8) is Copyright (C) 2002 Terry Chan with portions copyrighted by previous authors 2001-2002
.if t lget(8) is Copyright \(co 2002 Terry Chan with portions copyrighted by previous authors 2001-2002
.SH "EXAMPLE"
To download emacs type:
.IP
.B lget
emacs
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.I lget
is part of the
.SM lunar
source-code package management suite. It is a command-line tool
for automatically downloading a packages associated source files. 
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B lget
.PP
By itself it trys to download every single package (about 1.2G as of 02/17/2002).
This is useful if you have a fast link or want to test everything.
.TP
.B lget
module_1 <module_2> <module_3>
.PP
This automatically downloads the specified module sources.
.TP
.B lget
--from module
.PP
This specifies a different
.I /var/spool/lunar
directory. This is the default location for downloaded sources.
.TP
.B lget
--url
.PP
This tries to download the specified module from a different location. This is
useful if the original link is down.
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
outputs short help
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I /etc/lunar/config & /etc/lunar/local/config
.IP
These files store the settings for default locations. Its best to leave
these alone as they are in quite good places by default. See lin(8) for more
details about these files.
.IP
.TP
.I /var/lib/lunar/subroutines
.IP
Contains functions used by 
.B lget
.SH ADVANCED USAGE
Specifing a different download location for linux
.IP
lget
.B --url http://ftp.mirror.ac.uk/sites/ftp.kernel.org/linux/kernel/2.4/linux-2.4.17.tar.bz2 linux
.SH "NOTES"
Do not include 
.SM version
or
.SM section
when specifying a package. To get complete listing of installed software
packages and versions type
.B lvu installed
.SH "AUTHOR"
Thomas Stewart
.PP
Converted to Lunar by Terry Chan 03/23/2002
.PP
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <maintainer@lunar-penguin.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lunar(8), lin(8), lvu(1), lrm(8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY
