.TH "LUNAR" "8" "August 2003" "Lunar-Linux.org" "Lunar"
.SH "NAME"
lunar \- menu\-driven software package management utility
.SH "SYNTAX"
.B lunar
-d|--debug|-h|--help|-v|--verbose
.PP
.B lunar
[prune|renew|update|rebuild|optimize|fix|nofix|fixdepends|resurrect|install|remove|hold|unhold|exile|unexile]
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.if n lunar(8) is Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Terry Chan with portions copyrighted by previous authors 2001\-2002
.if t lunar(8) is Copyright \(co 2002-2003 Terry Chan with portions copyrighted by previous authors 2001\-2002
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I lunar
is an easy\-to\-use menu\-driven (dialog\-based) interface to the
.I Lunar
source\-based package management system.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.I lunar
without options will start the menu\-driven package management utility.
.PP
.B "-d, --debug"
enables debug messages, very useful when emailing a bug report
.TP
.B "-h, --help"
outputs short help
.TP
.B "-v, --verbose"
increases the level of message output
.TP
.I prune
.IP
Removes all old source code and old backups. Since the number of sources on the system grows steadily on a running system, you will need to clean some of the kept copies of sources and compile caches. The source code from previous versions are kept so that the packages can be rolled back to older versions. This does not delete sources that are up to date,
but not installed.
.PP
.I renew
.IP
Update all packages without fetching a fresh moonbase first. Does not run prune or autofix.
.PP
.I update
.IP
Fetches a new moonbase, updates all packages and runs (optionally) a prune and autofix.
.PP
.I rebuild
.IP
automatically rebuilds all installed software packages. This option is non\-interactive and does not start up the menu\-driven interface. It is suitable for use in cron jobs and is useful for rebuilding distributed binaries from source.
.PP
.I optimize
.IP
jump straight into the compiler optimizations menu.
.PP 
.I fix
.IP 
Check and fix all modules and internal state of lunar. Four methods are available.  The methods can be toggled using lunar\->Option\->Integrity Checking.  A fix is automatically issued afer a
.B lunar update.
.IP 
.I "Find Check"
.IP 
Discovers missing binary executables, libraries and header files.
.IP 
.I MD5 Sum
.IP 
Discovers modified executables and libraries.
.IP 
.I Ldd Check
.IP 
Discovers Broken executables and libraries.
.IP 
.I Sym Check
.IP 
Discovers mis\-owned symbolic links to files.
.TP 
.I nofix
.IP 
Check but do not fix modules and internal state.
.PP 
.I fixdepends
.IP 
Check and fix the dependency database of lunar.
Reconstructs the depends database without recompiling modules. This might help if your depends database is missing or corrupted.
.PP 
.I resurrect
.IP 
Reinstalls a module which has been removed but still has the compiled version available.
.PP
.I install
.IP 
Installs a module.
.PP
.I remove
.IP 
Removes a module.
.PP
.I hold
.IP 
Places a module on hold so it cannot be built/rebuilt.
.PP
.I unhold
.IP 
Removes a module from hold status so it can be built/rebuilt.
.PP
.I exile
.IP 
Prevents a module from being installed or resurrected. Perhaps because you've installed a customized module.
.PP
.I unexile
.IP 
Removes a module from exiled status.
.PP
.SH "REQUIREMENTS"
.I lunar
requires a connection to the Internet
.PP 
.I Bash
version 2 or higher
.PP 
.I Dialog
version 0.9a or higher
.PP 
.I Linux
kernel version 2.4.x or higher.
.SH "NOTES"
Options on the
.I Package Menu
add or remove software packages to/from installation and removal queues. The actual installation and/or removal of the packages will not be performed until either
.I Foreground Execution
or
.I Background Execution
are selected from the main menu.
.SH "OPERATION"
.I Navigating the Menus
.PP 
To return to a previous menu press
.I <Esc>
or use the
.I Cancel button
.PP 
To exit the program from the main menu press
.I <Esc>
or use the
.I Cancel button
.PP 
To toggle between buttons press
.I <Tab>
.PP 
To select whichever button is highlighted press
.I <Enter>
.PP 
To select/deselect items from a checklist press
.I <Space>
.SH "AUTHOR"
Kyle Sallee
.PP 
Updated Thomas Stewart 01/15/2002
.PP 
Converted to Lunar by Terry Chan 03/23/2002
.PP 
Updated by Chuck Mead 07/17/2003
.PP
Updated by Terry Chan 08/08/2003
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <maintainer@lunar\-linux.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
moonbase(1), lin(8), lvu(1), lget(8), lrm(8), lcrash(8)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY


