.TH "LVU" "1" "March 2002" "Lunar Linux" "LUNAR"
.SH "NAME"
lvu \- query/view lunar package management information
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B lvu
alien|leafs|orphans|prune|pam
.PP 
.B lvu
what|where|website|sources|maintainer <module>
.PP 
.B lvu
compile|compiler|install|sum|md5sum <module>
.PP 
.B lvu
export|import [snapshot]
.PP 
.B lvu
moonbase|html|updatelog|activity
.PP 
.B lvu
search "phrase"
.PP 
.B lvu
newer|older <yyyymmdd>
.PP 
.B lvu
from <path/file>
.PP 
.B lvu
installed [module]
.PP 
.B lvu
section [section]
.PP 
.B lvu
voyeur [delay or module]
.PP 
.B lvu
depends <module>
.PP 
.B lvu
tree <module>
.PP 
.B lvu
eert <module>
.PP 
.B lvu
$MODULE_SCRIPT <module>
.PP 
.B lvu
size [module]
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.if n lvu(1) is Copyright (C) 2002 Terry Chan with portions copyrighted by previous authors 2001\-2002
.if n lvu(1) also contains material which is Copyright (C) Lunar\-Penguin team.

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I lvu
is part of the lunar source\-based package management suite. It is a general purpose command\-line tool for displaying package logs, version information, checking for installed packages, checksums, message digests, maintainer information, package URL information, removing obsolete packages, displaying new packages, untracked files, sections, searching for files that are installed, finding when modules were created and packages in the software catalogue. It can even take and retrieve snapshots of currently installed packages for easy duplication.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.B alien
.IP 
find and display all files which are not currently tracked by the lunar package management system
.PP 
.B leafs
.IP 
displays installed modules that have no explicit dependencies on them
.PP 
.B orphans
.IP 
displays installed modules that are missing required dependancies
.PP 
.B prune
.IP 
removes all old source code and old backups. Otherwise the source code from previous versions is kept so that the packages can be rolled back to older versions. This does not delete sources that are up to date, but not installed.
.PP 
.B pam
.IP 
display modules installed that are pam aware
.PP 
.B what
module
.IP 
view the long package description
.PP 
.B where
module
.IP 
display the section a module belongs to
.PP 
.B website
module
.IP 
display the URL for the specified module
.PP 
.B sources
module
.IP 
list all source files contained in a module
.PP 
.B maintainer
module
.IP 
display the email address of the person currently responsible for maintaining a specified module
.PP 
.B compile
module
.IP 
show the compiler output generated when the module was built
.PP 
.B compiler
module
.IP 
display the version of compiler used for creating the ELF files in modules
.PP 
.B install
module
.IP 
used to determine what files were installed by a module and where those files are located
.PP 
.B sum
<module>
.IP 
print CRC checksums for modules(s). If no module is given it defaults to all.
.PP 
.B md5sum
<module>
.IP 
print module MD5 message digests (fingerprints). If no module is given it default to all
.PP 
.B export
.IP 
take a snapshot of all modules currently installed
.PP 
.B import snapshot 
.IP 
restore the snapshot from a previous
.I lvu export command (see the export option)
.PP 
.B moonbase
.IP 
prints the entire moonbase
.PP 
.B html
.IP 
prints the entire moonbase in a nice html format
.PP 
.B updatelog
.IP 
view summary log of previous lunar update
.PP
.B activity
.IP
view the main lunar activity log
.PP
.B search
"phrase"
.IP 
Searches modules long descriptions for
.I phrase
.PP 
.B newer
date
.IP 
print packages that are newer than a specified date. the date must be specified in the 'yyyymmdd' format, where y=year, m=month, and d=day
.PP 
.B older
date
.IP 
print packages that are older than a specified date. the date must be specified in the 'yyyymmdd' format, where y=year, m=month, and d=day
.PP 
.B from <path/>file
.IP 
find out what module has
.I <path>/file
installed
.PP 
.B installed <module>
.IP 
view all installed packages and corresponding version numbers or check
to see whether a particular package is installed and if it is
installed display its version number
.PP 
.B section
<module>
.IP 
view a list of all sections in the software catalogue or display a list of packages from a specific section
.PP 
.B size <module>
.IP 
display the size of a given module or your Lunar installation in KB
.PP 
.B voyeur
<module>
.IP 
start looking at what lin is compiling at the moment and outputs it. A module can be optionally specified.
.PP 
.B depends
<module>
.IP 
displays the modules that explicitly or recursively depend on this module.
.PP 
.B tree
<module>
.IP 
displays a tree of the module's dependencies.
.PP 
.B eert
<module>
.IP 
displays a tree of the module's reverse dependencies.
.PP 
.B $MODULE_SCRIPT
module
.IP 
replace $MODULE_SCRIPT with any of the following DETAILS | CONFIGURE | CONFLICTS | PRE_BUILD | BUILD | POST_BUILD | POST_INSTALL | POST_REMOVE to show module scripts for the
.I module
.SH "AUTHOR"
Original version written by Brian Peterson
.PP 
Modified by Kyle Sallee
.PP 
Updated Thomas Stewart 01/15/2002
.PP 
Converted to Lunar by Terry Chan 03/23/2002
.PP 
Edited and new functions added by Chuck Mead 05/21/2002
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <maintainer@lunar\-penguin.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lunar(8), lin(8), lrm(8), lget(8), moonbase(1)
.SH "WARRANTY"
This is free software with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY


